---
title: "2FA setup"
date: 2020-04-24T16:40:00+01:00
type: docs
weight: 10
description: Setting up two factor authentication - a guide for all users
tags:
- Core User
---
## What is two factor authentication?
Simply put, it helps to keep your company’s data more secure, to stop outsiders stealing it, editing or even deleting it.

When someone logs in from a new device or location, the system will prompt them for a code sent to or generated by their phone, to prove their identity.

If you’d like to dive into more detail, check out this video from authy.com: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ds_TANz4n3U&feature=youtu.be

## How long does this take to set up?
No more than a minute or two. It’s a really simple set up process. Here's a 60 second video showing how to do it. 

{{< youtube lGqp6oDVUF4 >}}

This example shows an iPhone but it’s the same process with an Android phone - just install the Authenticator app from the Google Play store.

Setup only needs to be done once. From then on you don’t need to do anything apart from open the app when asked. The app will automatically generate and display a code without any need for you to do anything.

To kick off the process
1) Click your user icon at the top right of the screen
2) Select 'edit profile'
3) Tick 'enable two factor authentication'

## What if I can’t use a smartphone?
If you don’t use a smartphone at work, that’s no problem. You can use an app on your computer - in fact many people find that more convenient than using a phone. Please ask your system administrator how to set things up and they’ll give you a hand.

## When should I set this up?
Now!

It’s never a bad time to upgrade your data security and privacy protection measures. If you’ve not already set up 2FA, agileBase will prompt you to do so once a week. 

However, you can do so at any time: click your user icon at the top right of the screen, select 'edit profile' and tick 'enable two factor authentication'.